File Edit Options Buffers Tools Help				       
								       
			     
I like the paper and could agree with seeing it published.  It is the
right sort of paper for RAM (vs. transactions), describing an
interesting and innovative system -- an autonomous sailing boat.  The
writing is generally clear.

However, I think the paper could be substantially improved by simply
adding	some real experimental results.  The	paper needs to be more
concrete about the performance of the system -- how well does it work?
in what wave conditions?  Do the claims made in the paper really stand
up?  How novel/superior is this system	in comparison to	others?


For example, in the abstract, the paper says "will be able to
autonomously cross the atlantic" -- that's a very strong statement --
can you guarantee that it will be able to cross?  has the system been
operated in environments that match the atlantic in terms of wave
height, wind speed etc?  Even	with strong winds on a Swiss Lake, I
fear that the Atlantic	Ocean could be a	whole other league of
difficulty?

The abstract also says "have been successfully tested more than a week
with winds ranging from 0 up to 25 knots" .... Was this for a single
week-long deployment, or was this for a number of different
deployments?  how many hours Has the system been operated for, what's
the longest mission, etc?  You don't necessarily need to provide all
this detail, but you should provide some justifcation about what the
"one week" of operation means?

I understand the system was being prepared for	a competition in       
July
-- can	results from that competition be	added to the paper? 
Also how
does the design and performance compare to other comparable entries to
the competition?

I am also curious how you will deal with boat traffic during the
mission (e.g. obeying the coast guard's collision regulations) for
vessels that are not large enough to have the position broadcast
system.
